Facebook-Network-Report-Assignment
==================================

#####A Network of my Facebook friends

#### Q. Networks-Demonstrate your understanding of the following terms; Nodes, Edges, Influence, Bridging, Bonding, Degrees, and, Betweeness, Closeness and Eigen-vector centrality in relation to your graph.


In producing a network of my friends using **Gephi**, I have developed an understanding of the way in which networks are present in everyday life and how to interpret them. In doing this assignment using Gephi and **Netvizz**, I also learned how to edit and adjust the layout of a network graph so that it is clearly presented and fulfils *Scneiderman’s* netvizz nirvana.A network is primarily made up of **nodes**, also called vertices and **edges** or connections between them. The nodes of a network are its focus and are served by connections or edges between them. This is evident in the Gephi graph of my Facebook friends network were the nodes are my friends and the edges connecting them indicated if they were also friends. My Facebook network is a community of place as illustrated in the Gephi graph were the nodes were split predominantly into two large clusters of my secondary school friends and my college friends. The edges between nodes in a network can be strong, weak or absent. In my friends network, some nodes or friends were absent of edges. These outliers were most likely strangers whom I met once and had no further contact with. In the process of editing and creating my graph I had to reduce the amount of nodes to ensure that I was fulfilling *Schneidermann’s* netvizz nirvana that every vertex/node was visible and the edges could be followed from source to distribution.

Two useful terms in understanding a network such as mine are influence and bridging. **Influence** is the effect a node, example a person, can exert on a node several connections away. This can be seen most dramatically in social networks were inter-personal ties come into effect and are seen in phenomenon such as the *‘widowers effect’* which impacts not only the grieving’s behaviour but those several connections further along the network. In the case of my network, this would be like if the grandparents of a friend’s girlfriend/boyfriend were sick and being cared for and the impact of this traveling through the network to me. Using my graph I could track the path of this influence on my behaviour. **Bridging** is when two different clusters are connected by an edge. This edge bridges the gap between these otherwise separate groups. In my graph this can be seen in one or two friends whose edges connect my two groups of friends.

**Bonding** in a network is the development of edges between nodes. In my network which is a community of place, this is the development of Facebook connections between my friends. Bonding can happen in a number of contexts depending on the community is it in such as communities of interest, place, action, circumstance and practice. An important term in understanding a network is the **degrees** of the nodes in a network and the network itself. The degrees of a node are the number of edges connecting to it. In my graph this is seen with certain friends having a lot of edges and therefore being high in degrees which can be reflected in the size of the node. The degrees of a network is the sum total of all the edges of the nodes. Certain social networks are egocentric networks were the 1st degree of alters are friends, the 1.5 degrees are when the alters are friends and the 2nd degrees are friends of friends. This is also known as degrees of *separation*. This can be seen in terms of the centrality of a network. 

Other ways of viewing **centrality** are the betweeness, closeness and the eigen-vector centrality. The **betweeness** of a node in a network is an indication of its centrality and is equal to the number of edges that are shortcuts from all nodes all other that pass through the node. Those nodes with a high betweeness are those with a significant influence in a network. In my graph this is apparent in certain friends who could be considered ringleaders who have a high betweeness. The **closeness** of a node is the total distance from all other nodes from that node. **Eigen-vector centrality** is the measure of the influence of a node in network depending on its connections to other high ranking nodes. Google page ranking system uses this.
